There are three devastating theoremsmathematics of democracy. These three theorems seem to prove itthere is something fundamentally wrong in the very concept of democracy. The first theorem Arrow's theorem. This theorem says the only way to combineof individual preferences in a preference group guaranteeing the principles of unanimityand vis-à-vis independence alternatives irrelevant is the dictatorship. The second theorem is the theoremGibbard-Satterthwaite. He says the only unanimous ballotwithout Dilemma "useful vote" is the dictatorship. The third theorem is a theoremGibbard. He adds that if we allow the pollsrandom, then the only unanimous vote, anonymous and without dilemma "useful vote"is the random dictatorship. And before you find what I sayscandalous, I remind you that this is there mathematical theorems, and noideological position can not challenge the validity of these theorems. Another thing, it does not mean eitherit is not possible to create a democratic system. After all, France or the United States,we live in democratic systems. However, as seen in episodesearlier, these democratic systems are arbitrary, imperfect and, I would sayeven dangerous for the future of our societies, because they grow among others, thepolarization. Well, so say the three theoremsundemocratic, is that there no perfect solution. Any democratic system will inevitably bevictim weaknesses. So, I see you coming, you're going to wanttell me about the proportional vote. We must realize that this is actuallythere a way to procrastinate decisions policies and delegate to politicians. These politicians then will have to establishcoalitions, making shenanigans and accept concessions to determine a linePolitical Director. I do not say that PR iswrong. I'm just saying it does not really solvethe problem of the election of a president by the people, or, more generally, theselecting an alternative among a set predetermined based on preferencesof the electorate. Short. Enough rambling. Let us return to our three issues of impossibility. Let's start with the Arrow's theorem, whichallow Kenneth Arrow of winning Nobel Prize in Economics in 1972. This theorem says that it is impossibledefine preferences for a group. This theorem is the least important of the three,especially for Democracy, where it has no need to describe preferences"People" vis-à-vis all candidates for president. A priori, it is not mocked bad whetherpeople prefer the New Anti-Capitalist Party the Lutte Ouvrière. In politics, yes. But this is not the case in other votes,such as the election of the Golden Ball, one of the French favorite personalityor of who will receive funding for research. In these contexts, it is important to aggregatevoter preferences in a preference group because, for candidates, bethe 21th favorite group can have very different consequences comparedto be the 246th. But then, it could require that this aggregationis done fairly. For example, we would like if everyoneGriezmann prefer to Ribery, while ranking Griezmann then to be better than thatRibery. This is what is called the unanimity requirement. But we also would like the relative rankingGriezmann between Ribery and does not depend the presence or absence of Benzemain the list of candidatsau gold ball. This is what is called the independenceof irrelevant alternatives, which one saw in the previous episode he couldcause an emerging bipolarity exacerbated. Well, Arrow's theorem says unfortunatelythese two highly desirable properties are incompatible, unless we considerthe preferences of the group will be fully determined by the preferences of aone voter. And for those who are dying to understandthe causes of this theorem, I'll talk Hardcore in Thursday's episode. Let's move. Gibbard-Satterthwaite move to the theorem. For me it Theorem is a real problem for democracy. He says he must choose between: notseek the opinion of the people, not to propose people that referendums, and put eachelector in a dilemma of the useful vote. And for me, it hurts, because the dilemmathe useful vote is a huge problem. We saw in the previous episode,it pushes politicians to organize to reduce our ability to express ourselvesand we thus contained in predefined boxes. Worse, if the people voted so"Helpful" and not according to their true preferences, the election of President she then remainsuseful ? As like the candidates say elected, "the people have spoken." Sure, buthe voted in a "useful" is he did not say what he thought. The people have spoken, but he lied. This is the same as number of debatesPolitical ask the question: what is the least bad candidate? Too often,we come to vote against a candidate, rather to express our true preferences. Leave open the dilemma of voting"Helpful" is limiting freedom of expression of the electorate, and deflect muchthe political debate on strategies vote rather than the real issuespolitical vision that should be addressed. Unfortunately, the Gibbard-Satterthwaite theoremthat democracy is bound to limit the expression of the electorate. No democratic system can not guaranteethat a president has been elected in accordance the true preferences of the people. Unless ... unless the democratic systemin question is random. In this case, we can ensure that no voterespecially not dictate the outcome of the election. We can even guarantee that no voter has more influence another voter on the outcome of the election. This criterion, according to which any voterthe same right to vote, is what theorists systems of call vote anonymity of the vote. Well, the theorem says Gibbardthan the only unanimous voting, anonymous and without dilemmaof useful vote is random dictatorship, also known as name lotocracie. That is why, this random dictatorship? Well, everyone puts a ballot with the name of its candidate in a ballot boxgiant. The elected then will be the candidate cityan entry drawn at random in the box! Just that ! Yes ! The only time the voters will allinterest express their true preferences isthis case extreme which is randomly chosen! So that may seem extreme.