Haleh I have a question for you, you're an expert in AI right. When do you think there will be human level a eyes? Hi, Jade, so usually videos on my channel in French. How's your French? Je ne parle pas français Okay Well Since you're such a great science youtuber, I'll do an exception for you for today I'll be speaking in English. Even if it means every one of my viewers mocking my French accent. Thanks lis So what do you think a human level a is possible? Could an AI ever? Outperform a hearin at all tasks and for lower costs and if so why when could all of this happen these are fascinating? Questions and it's extremely tempting to have a strong opinion about such controversial topics But it's extremely important to first note that predicting The future is an extremely challenging task Especially given how complex the modern world is and how fast it is changing in particular My big advice would be don't trust your guts and don't trust my guts either Okay, sure, but it's still an important question. I mean a human level a eyes would imply such huge changes to the world? How can we build up more of an informed answer? Well, even if no individual can be said to be reliable It's often the case that the opinion of a community of experts yields more reliable answers Yeah So I found this article of the MIT Technology Review and it says that AI Experts don't think that human-level AI is a threat to humanity. Wait. Did you see that? There was a follow up to this article look at the bottom of the article Yeah, that's what's weird. The follow-up article says the exact opposite. So what's going on here? I guess that a key takeaway is that there are big disagreements among experts and that there are even disagreements about what the agreements of the experts are it's a big mess and unfortunately many AI experts are not helpful and Prefer to present their own views on the future of AI as well as their own views on the consensus of the experts of AI But there's also a more subtle and more fundamental reason why the two articles disagree. Do you see what I'm hinting at? It's about how to think about risks I think I get or you're saying in the survey discussed in the first article They asked AI experts to say when they thought there would be human-level AI Whereas the survey discussed in the second article gave specific dates and asked AI experts to say the probabilities They thought that there would be human-level AI by that time so it might be the case that nearly all AI experts think that there won't be human level AI by 2050 but at the same time they think there's around a 10% probability that there will be human-level AI by 2020 Exactly, and when we discuss risks, it's crucial to think in such probabilistic terms indeed a nuclear plant That is more likely not to explode is not necessarily a reassuring nuclear plant definitely, even if it has a 1% probability of exploding I'd argue that that's still cause for concern and we should still prepare for the Worst yes, and we should not give too much importance to surveys that only ask about most likely scenarios it's important to consider surveys that discuss how likely different scenarios are and fortunately for us in 2015 ai expert from the two main a AI conferences were surveyed that way and out of 1600 34 of them 352 accepted to answer the questions of the survey. You should check it out Jade. Let me see Wow this survey asked AI experts to plot on a graph for any given date how likely they thought it would be that human level A eyes would have arrived by that date And here's what the curves of different experts look like Also here in red is an aggregate of the predictions of the experts When crucial thing to note when looking at the graphs is how much AI experts Disagree, this is important to note since it means that no expert is representative of all experts in particular There is a huge selection bias whenever you give great importance to one single expert. So let's look at the aggregate according to the expert there's a 50% chance that by the Year 2060 one human level AIS will have arrived so we probably have a bit of time According to experts human-level AI in a few decades away is the more likely scenario But in terms of risks we should also care about less likely scenarios They also say that there's a 10% chance of human level a eyes by 2025 lay, that's so soon Yes, it is and 10% is far from being negligible again the nuclear plans with a 10% chance of exploding should Definitely not be built yet human-level AI may be even more explosive than a nuclear plant as we've discussed it in length on my channel and as Robert Mars does On his human level a I possess existence of risks for mankind unless we massively invest on AI safety Human-level AI may well destroy humanity At least there is a strong case made by Nick Bostrom in his super intelligence book that we should regard the destruction of Mankind as the default scenario if AI becomes superhuman Okay, but 10% is the prediction of the experts. How likely is it that they're right about this? I mean having experts made very earnest predictions in the past they have they definitely have for instance Marvin Minsky famously thought that human-level AI would be there by the 1970s he had overestimated The speed of progress but prediction errors would not always due to our estimation of future progress. In fact lately It seems that the opposite holds more often for instance in the 2015 survey Experts predicted that we take 12 years for a eyes to outperform humans at the game of go But alphago beat lee sedol a few months later Assuming that they are equally wrong about human-level AI This suggests that we cannot rule out the possibility that a eyes will reach human level within a couple of years I see I guess the unreliability of experts should be regarded as added uncertainty if the Distribution of expert predictions for human-level AI looks like a bell curve. Then this added uncertainty should flatten the curve but look this means that the probability of extreme events increases Yes, indeed because experts are unreliable we should in fact be even more concerned about the possibility of human level AI in a near future and instead of a 10% probability of human level AI by 2025 we might consider a 10% probability of human-level AI by say 2022 okay But this is very hard to imagine to reach human level wouldn't a eyes need some kind of real intelligence or consciousness? And what about energy consumption? The human brain is very efficient can computers really be as efficient as the human brain There are definitely huge hurdles to get to human-level AI But research is progressing at an impressive pace both in terms of hardware and software In terms of hardware for instance the so called Akuma's law suggests that the energy consumption of a single computation is dropping exponentially as it is divided by two every 18 months and Innovations in paralyzed if not decentralized computing and data storage may allow this trend to carry on So then what about the software side don't we need some kind of major breakthrough? Probably it's hard to tell to understand the software challenge It's useful to get back to an insurance 1950 paper in these paper He suggested that a large part of the complexity of the human brain is critical to reach human level intelligence Yet the human brain has around a million billion synapses If 1,000 of them are essential for human level intelligence It suggests that an AI will need to be of size at least one terabyte to which human level Today the size of large areas is usually of the order of Giga bytes and the largest AIS Seem to slowly reach one terabyte this suggests that in terms of complexity We may soon which what's necessary for human level intelligence Still it's hard to imagine that this is sufficient to reach human level a eyes I mean don't we still need to train those a eyes? Yes indeed but much of the necessary data is arguably already out there to reach human level large enough and well designing of a I Could read Wikipedia again and again and watch science youtube videos It's one thing to be exposed to this data, but could an AI actually learn from this data Could it lead to a real intelligence again? it's hard to tell but it's Important to note that it is hard to tell it seems that many people believe that since AIS are just doing mechanical operations They cannot compete humans. But the thing is that long the mechanical operations are actually full of surprises They can lead to results that we humans cannot predict not because the operations are complicated In fact, each operation is extremely simple. However, a is performed a huge number of such simple operations This is something that our brains cannot do and this is why our brains cannot predict the outcome of a eyes computations Which means that they will lead to results that surprised us Alan Turing put it brilliantly He wrote the view that machines cannot give rise to Surprises is do I believe to a fallacy to which philosophers and mathematicians are particularly subject This is the assumption that as soon as a fact is presented to a mind all consequences of that facts bring into the mind Simultaneously with it. It is a very useful assumption under many circumstances but one too easily forgets that it is false a natural consequence of doing so is that one Lynne assumes that there is no virtue in the mere working out of consequences from data and general principles Exactly and thus we should not be overconfident about what we think that huge eyes can do their long Computations will likely surprise us well in fact If you've been following the recent developments of a guy you should probably have been surprised by invidious photorealistic images YouTube's automated captioning and Google duplexes phone calls You know me who you hi, I'd like reserve a table for Wednesday the 7th for seven people It's for four people well people win Wednesday at 6 p.m. Oh Actually really sir for like up were like a 5 people for you for below you can come How long is the way usually to be seated fuck when tomorrow? For next Wednesday the 7th. Oh No, it's not too easy. You can call me back. Okay? Oh I got you bang Again that was real call with many of these examples where the calls quite don't go as expected But the assistant understands the context to nuance it new tasks for wait times in this case and handle the interaction Gracefully, yes We should be prepared for potential surprising developments in AI that would give them human level reasoning abilities in particular given all we've discussed I would claim that there is a strong case for saying that human-level AI by 2025 should be given a probability larger than 1% and come to think of it 1% is huge. Especially given how disruptive this human-level AI would be This is why I would argue that we should really take the threat of human-level AI seriously and invest massively on AI safety Hey, I hope you've enjoyed this video a big. Thank you to Jade from an item I highly recommend her YouTube channel is one of the greatest things out there and of course her videos about physics Which is her background are really really good, but I strongly recommend even more her videos about computer science ideas Particle, there's one on the singularity and there also videos about machine learning overfitting or the optimal stopping problem I highly recommend these videos and also we just did a video on Jade's channel It's about a pragmatic solution to implementing value loading by simulating a virtual democracy on extrapolated versions of ourselves for self-driving cars faced with the trolley problem Before coming back to the comments of the previous video I want to highlight again the article that I've written about how to handle a human level AI and in particular how to load values Into a which is a very very very difficult problem I strongly recommend anyone who's a bit interested by these ideas to go and have a read of these paper as I think it is the most Important thing that I would have ever written my life - about the komono Opinion ticket is a sweet la Vida solution automatic So our kuhmo about the mission poor isn't what they plan to the heat as a Muto here Samuel Genesee endless Possibilities because Veronica qf9 hace. Una she'll go eight. No, this one here is a Upon what did they seem pretty fancy algae off non-apology on due to tech community particular Individual so in so high-pass seed if your could you to visit the floor if not a section. Oh boy. Yeah Somos de cuisine no a/c power finish here Sacramento mucho to mom to come you, so I would say some people Sentinel - Kevie Christoph Michelle a general doesn't miss a video. So you're a fat killer the pugilist underwater if I'm the sequester would improve achieve easy the pan you ate if you will it's Really cool did you get a shock? media more character Yeah, I said this position for young fillies in seven men you say what you owe him some clearly just a partial body to oppose him because There was no education Draconian was too early flame duties as from pass on Duty to numeric. Ooh, patently burns X naught open or short 1finity parafoil a shell Gribble a addition individual But I was molten sick on citizens on extermo MPG severely unique cupola water indication keyword talented computer from restitution pacified UK so national Say cash whiskey no me some bleep Job. Yes coupon. Just hold on a Kinnaman back guarantee Domini it shows There as you go sniff get you more Benishek become or reduce it radically befell the reform education national past gives ya beaucoup to the person role a case where this you know our Foursome. Oh they make them talk a situation Symington toe Through inequity prison some coupons not fulfilled decision when you go to a PTA is our phone book with the time P suppose you know senior subs a necessity given would not canola for the 11 new CEO days. No senior. It's a demonic with Danone will be J. But 2005 tracking PK a so source qtz the technology come later, go eternal combination 205 Jean pong world, you know educativa precook toka - ah, she actually let you guys know soon I'd say so I've Shown to computers. If you ask a busy effective nopon. Do you read the ones he also said no Appa action action or limit a Computer you just go come on - on YouTube potato. I'm wonderful book. Mucho gusto. Oh come on the video youtube poop world even on beyond today detection revealed a Formula walk you ma'am. Yeah the YouTube phenomenon city on wax. Yeah - total net. It's a travesty that one IKEA single tonight a dictum like stone Ain't no Fuckin simple super here. They come to go to school a dick on Facebook They come to a tweet a link to youtube if you really want to step on Your paws on Martinez on the meritorious to the envy job with Ricky Satya a calico Simon We said you could clowns in yet and you know, you know It's like a public here to The clean air you could divine your presence WebP is important corrupt because most popular group Do you know if you have to screw a cool content? I suppose fun options, you know seppuku mija Individual each week like only cumin Kentucky beyond supplement pass a predict into Bitcoin you would speculate on growth a CL facade vicinity hot Louis acting modem. We know dude Jenny do a dramatic sir adversely girl who a girl motivation illegality Cool Sean tonight yet to see is to other do anthem. We are typical Wet if you put a needle on it on Queenie new up like the men would also no Dooku won't pay Lincoln, you know, please professor that left leg on the shell exploit a $25 for Turkey Yo you so especially complicated owner happy mom, you know? Yeah, they're a party Alice muna lost his notebook is On bullshit is human profile is actual manual computer. Mafia He continually repelled alpha don't say domain Pau Zotoh a Malloy Siana kotelnyk wah-wah Looking older the track also su sitio de tousser on trophies hell yeah, see a Vortex monsoon more enormous you're associating media and pull on silly word boy after you tell your concern I'll prove expertise into an empty wave. Holy fire audition - a necessity upon Hotel hotel decision wife in Yeldon even more one more one more, you know a Lugano Jamison confesses Calculus was gonna be chiefly octopi accurately soonish near Houma hide of God who in nuna's man, she seemed to pretty to myself what choice - -41 in the pros - pawn years, especially in Europe in short quite develop a lead Kazuma You cooperate - you applied also - Yahoo! element array at The Met compress this is same a Popeye's don't exterminate humanity Well, no more power ratios and to all don't permit episode which must include replica some - computer by secure Massage video passage knee pad champion Pasi wife. Yeah Dyneema. Sofia one more flippy. I Just gotta save a miss a video clip conclude offer last year. He sewer nothing else athlete is yet No confuse Joey do not give I'm on fire optimist a I'm effectively promote Dante Joseph failure Didn't we know I'm all taken a favor by more and more people He or she turns up a secular powerful 9u probability can only media blowed up at Machpelah You can hold your new society. Don't assign your Ania mmm Does he add a description very Monica Civic psychopathically your Jean who receives focus even a very competent specialist University Electricity Rhodesia job isn't Eliza question 20. No Zelda Nagumo suppose Vermont will feature your humanity 800 me a soy sauce and former persecuted videos Philip Oakey needs learning portion Idaho courage Palmer don't give me something to pathology modify behavior from back on overtake hiddenville City FL disagree parallel Vince you of the basin is a common possum terminus attitude from some Bergamo and inject crucial For be impossible induce a generic problem. See come home. They defeat room by the waterfront a record amount in you a Routine-use knock knock I did okay for food. Well, how did I say to say they feel differently music? So how Lucia the lot Jose the Videocon over there a key right for come home you develop a special consequence if I'm unlucky Oracle robbery we welcome the key a secondary super cool do confusion a Absalon fact is action Camera mobility a decree for absent from color I noticed the beauty but so sad you could attend the rotisserie the linear portion survey miss Egidio possibility a coma telepathic on suburban upon 22 episode now cheaper Although he just Beckham Sevilla now pushing for the legendary mathematician John von Neumann was the first to use this phrase to describe this Lovely day when he said the ever accelerating progress of technology gives the appearance of approaching some essential Singularity in the history of the race beyond which human affairs as we know them could not continue 70% of the AI experts agree that this is at least a moderately important problem and how much to the AI experts think that society should prioritize AI safety research well 48% of them think we should prioritize it more than we currently are and only 11% think we should prioritize it less so there we are AI experts are very unclear about what the future holds but they think the Catastrophic risks are possible and that this is an important problem. So we need to do more AI safety research