Off 1. Jessica, Chief Executive Officer ofa large multinational firm, will soon retire. His business is his life. It's his baby and she wants to see continuegrow. But above all, she will not abandonto anyone. Unfortunately, the Board of Directorsseems to want to see some Daniel himself succeed. Jessica hates Daniel. And she would hate to see Daniel take controlhis company. Except that the Board of Directors onknows. Suddenly, Jessica will not influenceas she would like. Desperate, she turns to a mathematician. Off 2. The mathematician asked him Jessicado a rundown on potential candidates. Jessica makes a list of five candidates. course included is Daniel, but Harvey,Louis, Rachel and Mike. Jessica believes that Harvey in particularis a promising candidate, and that the Board Administration knows. She is convinced that Harvey deservesthe next CEO of his company. But the mathematician is not convinced. He must know more. What do the different board membersAdministration? Off 3. Jessica says that the Board of Directorsconsists of 5 key members of that will depend on the outcome of the upcoming voteCEO. These members are Francis, Doug, Peter, Claireand Jessica herself. Jessica knows them well. It is even almost certain preferencesMember of the Board. According to her, Daniel Francis prefers to Rachel HarveyMike Louis. Doug prefers Daniel Louis to MikeHarvey Rachel. Peter prefers to Daniel Louis to MikeHarvey Rachel. Claire prefers Rachel Louis to MikeDaniel Harvey. Finally, Jessica prefers to Rachel HarveyMike Daniel Louis. Jessica turns to our mathematician,and asks: what can you do to prevent the election of that bastard Danielwho has stopped trying to steal my business ? The mathematician, intrigued, returnedhome and, armed with his familiarity with the mathematical theory of ballots,begins to test various combinations. Off 4. For a single ballot, Daniel would receiveand two votes would be elected by two votes against 1 vote for Louis, 1 and 1 for RachelHarvey. Unless Claire and Jessica is not mixedto elect Rachel. No, that would not suffice because Petermay tip the balance towards Daniel. And suddenly, Daniel would still be elected. Off 4. And if we made an election in two rounds? We could then have a duel against Rachel Daniel in the second round ... But no, it doeswork either. It's even Daniel would win ...Unless you do convinces Claire voting Louis. Yes, that, but it would work ...would galley. It would impose a two-round systemand convince Claire to vote Louis ... Off 4. And if we said to each member to votetheir order of preference, attributing then 4 points in the first choice, 3 pointsthe second choice, third choice 2 points, 1 point and 0 in the 4th to last? Daniel wouldthen 4 + 4 + 3 + 0 + 0 = 11 points. Rachel would have 3 + 0 + 0 + 4 + 3 = 10 points. Harvey 2 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 4 = 9, Mike 1 + 2 + 2 + 2 + 2 = 9 and Louis0 + 3 + 4 + 3 + 1 = 11 points. We then have a gender Danieland Louis ... But Jessica could put Louis First of preferences, and Louiswould be elected! Bingo! Except ... except that voting preferences systempoints, that sounds too complicated air impose. Off 4. In any case, all these analyzes appearindicate that Louis is the key to the solution. Jessica is not going to like it ... She hasnot seem to like much Louis Daniel ... That stinks ... Unless… Off 4. And if we did a calendar system, asfor sports tournaments. We make games that oppose two candidates. The loser is eliminated and thus continuesuntil only one remains candidate ! Off 4. We can test vs Daniel Louis Harveyvs Mike and winner vs Daniel Louis will play against Rachel, and we end with afinal between the remaining two. Daniel vs Louis is Louis wins. Harvey vs Mike is Mike wins. Louis vs Rachel is Rachel wins. So, we are left with a final Rachelvs Mike. And bingo, it's Mike who wins! Except that… Off 4. Except that table games is somewhatarbitrary. How can she convince JessicaBoard of use ? I know ! Off 4. We will use a more natural agenda. We will begin to oppose the two majorfavorites, and Daniel Louis. And as it is removed immediately Daniel. Then we could make Mike vs Louis. That's Louis wins. Then Louis against Rachel, and that it wouldRachel win. Finally, Rachel Harvey versus ... And bingo, it's Harvey wins! And that,that's sturdy and it will appeal to Jessica ! Off 5. The next day, when we voteFuture CEO Jessica advertisement, air confident, everyone knows it's goingbe played between Daniel and Louis, and offers therefore vote by show of hands between. Board members, for whom Daniel orLouis is one of two preferred are all agree. Freehand is Louis wins. Jessica suddenly announced that Louis is the newCEO. Off 5. It was then that Francis, who hates Louis,adds that there are still other candidates and it would not be seriousnot to take them into account. What do you think of Mike, Off 5. spear suddenly Jessica. The vote between Louis and Mike is performed,and Mike loses. Jessica turned to Francis and asked himthe coup: "Another suggestion? " Off 5. Francis retorted: yes, Rachel course. Off 5. The vote between Rachel and Louis is now runningto the advantage of Rachel, now the new future CEO! Off 5. But it is in all of Peter and Doug for indignation. Peter and Doug, a macho air, sayRachel has no shoulders to keep the business. Peter and Doug, back to the wall, then suggestthe name of Harvey. Francis replied: "Not him," Off 5. Follow Claire says Rachelis more than enough competent and Peter Doug and demonstrate there sexism. The board then becomesnoisy and disorganized. Jessica, pretending to be a nervous wreck,then require silence and yields to indignation Peter and Doug. But she adds, edgy, it will bethere the last vote. The board then passesvote between Rachel and Harvey. And that's Harvey wins! Off 5. Jessica then officially announced,a neutral voice that leaves no shine triumphalism that she feels inside"Harvey will be my successor. He will be the next CEO of our company. Congratulations to him. " And the craziest in this story isthe Board believes that Harvey's election is legitimate. In particular, no one imagined thatchoosing the new CEO was fully fashioned long before the council meetingAdministration, by the invisible hand malicious mathematician. So one might think that the storyJessica Harvey and I told here like the television series House of Cardsand Suits, Yes the name and pictures of the characters comeof these series, for those unfamiliar not. you would think that everything I havetold there is fiction ... Well no ! What I told you thereis inspired by the book {\ it Predictions: How to See and Shape the Future with Game Theory}of Bruce Bueno de Mesquita, a researcher in Game theory, which sells such predictionsgeopolitical security agencies and did better than expert opinions. Mesquita speaks of the time when a CEO soonretired had hired to do turn the balance in the election of itssuccessor. And although we'll talk more at length bookMesquite in this series on democracy. What I want you to remember thisvideo is that the electoral process greatly affects the outcome of a vote. And that far transcends the problempolitics. In fact, what I will try to convince youin the next video is that it can greatly influence the future of ourCompanies choosing the polls that we want to implement. Worse, we use ballotstoday have consequences extremely adverse to our way of thinkingand think not only politics, but also various social issues. In the next video, I will tryconvince you that the polls in 1st round and 2 rounds lead us to divide us,thus supporting the opposition concept political and protest votes. But this notion of protesters convictionsthat is, I think, one of the sources major climbs of pseudo-science andextremist ideologies. And in the following video, I'll introduce youvarious alternatives to this, but I will also further entanglement betweenthe mathematical theory of games and various corporate events ... The ultimate goal will be to show you howapplied mathematics have greatly messed up my understanding of our societies,and how they can enable better think of what to do or not doannouncing better tomorrow ...