Off 1. On 8 November 2016, the United States of Americatear as rarely before. Following the announcement of the results and electionDonald Trump, a stark contrast to draws. On the one hand, a joyful ecstasyand hope warmly welcomes this new unexpected. On the other, hate tears and crieshopelessness accompany poignant anguish. Rarely the United States were so divided. Off 2. The US media are covered hyperbole. Some finally see the light at the end oftunnel. Other announce the worst and arm themselvesalready a struggle for every moment. Meanwhile, sociological studiesconfirm this. The Americans are increasingly polarized. They are completely isolated in onethe two political camps. Marijuana against religion. Gay pride against the sanctity of marriage. Abortion against life. Aid for the international against theprotectionism. Social aid against reductiontaxes. Environmentalists against developmenteconomic. The gun ban against freedomto possess them. Hippies against the Conservatives. Equality against security. Redistribution of wealth against thereducing burdens on businesses. Progress against the traditions. Cities against the countryside. There is a good chance that you fallalways on the same side of the debate. Is not it strange? Why is itthat each of us can not be mixed in our opinions on allthese social issues? How is it your answer to any of these questionsSuffice it to predict most of your answers other questions? I know what you're saying. You say that people in the campopposite are all stupid. That your camp is the right camp. You are right. But what is the probability that peoplestupid the other camp are all agreed on as many different subjects? Howis it only stupid people do not have not more mixed and more random opinions? And are you sure that the people of your camp are really smarterthat those of the opposite camp? Nothing is less sure. The level of education, particularly oncecontrolled vis-à-vis confounders such as peer pressure experienced byeducated, not so good preacher ideology. And then, after all, the history of scienceand philosophy has shown that people highly educated found themselves on a spectrumextensive ideological. Like the US, somethingseems to divide all democracies world more than ever. And the figures that reveal the fractureideological are scary. Off 3. Over the last ten years, UShave increasingly polarized under the mandate of Barack Obama who said yetwant to unify. Off 3. On typical issues of the Republican debateDemocrat versus the US response are increasingly systematically thosethe party with which they identify. Geographical differences were alsoaccentuated. The news feeds became radicalized. Off 3. Now, the vast majority of countiesare clearly achieved, either by a Democrat or a Republican. Worse, the opinion of a camp aboutthe other was deeply agravé. Off 3. Today, 45% of Republicans thinkthe Democratic ideology is a threat the future of the United States, while41% of Democrats believe that ideology Republican is dangerous for the futurethe United States. And the accession to power of Donald Trumpseems to amplify this ideological split national, day after day. So much so, that today isthis growing ideological split that me worried the most. I would say that this is oneof my biggest concerns for the future of humanity. I find it even more disturbing thatthe worst ideologies of politicians. But let my troubles aside. Let us ask one of the issuesfascinating available. Why do people think theythink ? And especially in our case, why are they are polarized as wasthe case ? And above all, what should we do to depolarize political beliefs? These are large questions. There may be mentioned bulk confirmation biases,peer pressure, heuristics availability, the pleasure of cognitive fluencyand while many other logical errors cretins which our brains are constantlyvictims. But as a game theorist, thisinterests me it is mostly causes systemic. In particular, I wonder if changestructuring our companies could lead to different results. And then there is of course the phenomenon of{\ It filters bubbles} and ideological epidemics which will be discussed in an upcoming episode. But for today, I would advancean explanation that is only rarely Advanced for my taste. I say it is our democratic systemitself which inevitably leads to this ideological polarization of societies. And to understand why, back in 2002. Off 4. It's an earthquake that shakesFrance. We April 21, 2002. Following the first round of the electionpresidential, left, Lionel Jospin was knocked out by the National FrontJean-Marie Le Pen. Jospin, humiliated by this monstrous failure,announces the end of his political career the evening. In the second round, the voting rate increasesmore than 10%, and Jacques Chirac will become President in a very, very, very widemajority. Why Jospin has he got eliminatedin the first round? Well, it is because he was given favorite. Because Jospin was favorite and nobodydoubted his presence in the second round, the left is divided. That year, the candidates leftwere very numerous. But mostly left to votersscattered their votes. The far left in particular has experiencedunusually high results. And therein lies the tragic paradoxour electoral system. By presenting or voting theywanted to vote, candidates and voters left have self-promoting stabbedAfter they dislike most, namely the absence of a left candidate in the secondtower. That's why we are nowPrimary in both major political parties today. This is to prevent the scattering ofvoice suffered by the left in 2002. These primaries are so become commonnowadays it arises even more the question of their legitimacy, relevanceor their purpose in our system democratic. Just like we do not even question thefact that there are only two major parties policies. Yet there lies the problemour democratic system. Because there are only two major partiespolicies, it is pushed to join camp from 2. And if this is still only halftrue in France, across the Atlantic, it is we-don't-perhaps more so. And if this is even more so there than here,it is not because Americans are more idiots. This is because their democratic systemstill grows to divide into two political camps and never move away. Off 5. The real American voting system is aexcruciating complexity and a disastrous arbitrary. I will not go into those details. But to a first approximation, one can seeit is an election in one round. And you see the problem with the electiona tower? Off 5. The scattering of votes is a problemmore immediate! Thus, the day the Democrat Hillary Clinton became a candidatethe 2016 presidential was the day where ideas of the Democratic Bernie Sanderswere killed in the bud. For starters, if Sanders hadin turn, he would steal votes in Clinton and almost immediately guarantee the electionTrump. As Sanders was ideologically moreclose to Clinton that Trump, so he had any interest in not arise. More generally, a time theretwo major candidates, every citizen has interest not to come, becausethen disadvantage the applicant who is the closest, and one he favorsabsolutely does not elect! It is said that our elections are addicted toirrelevant alternatives, because the presence of an alternative candidate, hereSanders, will affect the election's outcome. And this dependence irrelevant alternativesis a very problematic scourge. Because of this, a ballot system, yetmore than two-round system, leads ineluctably to a two-party system, and applicationSo inevitably citizens to choose camp from 2! In fact, it's worse than that. To avoid Trump election, Sandershad every interest to fully support Clinton even on points of disagreementbetween them. That's why the ideas polarizein our democratic systems! Because we are inevitably in a2 camps election, every citizen has interest to announce its full membership in a2 camps, even if only very slightly more in keeping with a rather campthat the other ! That's the whole problem the dilemma of the "useful vote". In our democratic systems, therehas room for two schools of thought. There are two camps, you have any interestto choose one of two camps. Worse, once chosen your camp, youhave any interest in praising all aspects your camp. And that's what inevitably leadsa growing division and polarization political ideologies. That's why I think it isto consider urgent and critical systems democratic alternative; systemswhich do not promote, or at least favor less bipartisanship and extreme polarizationpolicy that grows ideological extremism. And the key to this is to designsystems that are independent alternatives irrelevant and close the door to "voteuseful". And as we shall see in future episodes,the Holy Grail of mathematics democracy exist! So I think it urgent to adopt assoon as possible, to avoid a future where our societies will tear more andmore. This is the future of humanity East stake. I would delete comment mentioningnews, especially if it takes sides. CGP Grey. FPTP. The Good Stuff. Is America more divided than ever?